= WillPaginate

== This fork

I needed to paginate an Atom feed, and didn't want to build it myself (specifically because
I'm rendering the same content as HTML, anyway). So this fork adds pagination support for XML, usable
in Atom feeds or other XML resource representations.

Usage example:

	xml.instruct! :xml, :encoding => "UTF-8"
	xml.feed :xmlns => 'http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom', 'xml:base' => base_uri, 'xml:lang' => 'en-us' do
	  xml.link :rel => 'self', :type => 'application/atom+xml', :href => request.url
	  xml.link :rel => 'alternate', :type => 'text/html', :href => orders_url
	  will_paginate(@orders, :xml => true, :builder => xml)
	  xml.id orders_url
	  xml.title 'Feed for OM order updates'
	  xml.updated Order.maximum(:updated_at).iso8601
	  for order in @orders do
	    ... # render entries
	  end
	end

This will render something like this:

	<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
	<feed xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom" xml:lang="en-us" xml:base="http://om.example.com/">
	  <link type="application/atom+xml" rel="self" href="http://om.example.com/orders.atom?page=2"/>
	  <link type="text/html" rel="alternate" href="http://om.example.com/orders"/>
	  <link rel="next" href="/orders.atom?page=3"/>
	  <link rel="previous" href="/orders.atom?page=1"/>
	  <id>http://om.example.com/orders</id>
	  <title>Feed for OM order updates</title>
	  <updated>2009-04-07T07:44:56Z</updated>

In other words, use will_paginate as you would use it in HTML (the controller code can stay 
unchanged), and add the :xml => true option. This will make will_paginate return an XML string
representation containing appropriate <link rel=...> elements. Alternatively, you can pass
in an XML builder and it will use that instead.

Works with Rails 2.3.2.

Note that my experience with git and GitHub is limited, I'm happy about suggestions on how to
make this more useful.

Note I had to comment out one of the original (unrelated) tests because of a problem with SQLite.

Below you'll find the original description of will_paginate.

stilkov, http://www.innoq.com/blog/st

== The original

Pagination is just limiting the number of records displayed. Why should you let
it get in your way while developing, then? This plugin makes magic happen. Did
you ever want to be able to do just this on a model:

  Post.paginate :page => 1, :order => 'created_at DESC'

... and then render the page links with a single view helper? Well, now you
can.

Some resources to get you started:

* {Installation instructions}[http://github.com/mislav/will_paginate/wikis/installation]
  on {the wiki}[http://github.com/mislav/will_paginate/wikis]
* Your mind reels with questions? Join our
  {Google group}[http://groups.google.com/group/will_paginate].
* {How to report bugs}[http://github.com/mislav/will_paginate/wikis/report-bugs]


== Example usage

Use a paginate finder in the controller:

  @posts = Post.paginate_by_board_id @board.id, :page => params[:page], :order => 'updated_at DESC'

Yeah, +paginate+ works just like +find+ -- it just doesn't fetch all the
records.  Don't forget to tell it which page you want, or it will complain!
Read more on WillPaginate::Finder::ClassMethods.

Render the posts in your view like you would normally do. When you need to render
pagination, just stick this in:

  <%= will_paginate @posts %>

You're done. (You can find the option list at WillPaginate::ViewHelpers.)

How does it know how much items to fetch per page? It asks your model by calling
its <tt>per_page</tt> class method. You can define it like this:

  class Post < ActiveRecord::Base
    cattr_reader :per_page
    @@per_page = 50
  end

... or like this:

  class Post < ActiveRecord::Base
    def self.per_page
      50
    end
  end

... or don't worry about it at all. WillPaginate defines it to be <b>30</b> by default.
But you can always specify the count explicitly when calling +paginate+:

  @posts = Post.paginate :page => params[:page], :per_page => 50

The +paginate+ finder wraps the original finder and returns your resultset that now has
some new properties. You can use the collection as you would with any ActiveRecord
resultset. WillPaginate view helpers also need that object to be able to render pagination:

  <ol>
    <% for post in @posts -%>
      <li>Render `post` in some nice way.</li>
    <% end -%>
  </ol>

  <p>Now let's render us some pagination!</p>
  <%= will_paginate @posts %>

More detailed documentation:

* WillPaginate::Finder::ClassMethods for pagination on your models;
* WillPaginate::ViewHelpers for your views.


== Authors and credits

Authors::                Mislav Marohnić, PJ Hyett
Original announcement::  http://errtheblog.com/post/929 
Original PHP source::    http://www.strangerstudios.com/sandbox/pagination/diggstyle.php

All these people helped making will_paginate what it is now with their code
contributions or just simply awesome ideas:

Chris Wanstrath, Dr. Nic Williams, K. Adam Christensen, Mike Garey, Bence
Golda, Matt Aimonetti, Charles Brian Quinn, Desi McAdam, James Coglan, Matijs
van Zuijlen, Maria, Brendan Ribera, Todd Willey, Bryan Helmkamp, Jan Berkel,
Lourens Naudé, Rick Olson, Russell Norris, Piotr Usewicz, Chris Eppstein,
Denis Barushev, Ben Pickles.


== Usable pagination in the UI

There are some CSS styles to get you started in the "examples/" directory. They
are {showcased online here}[http://mislav.caboo.se/static/will_paginate/].

More reading about pagination as design pattern:

* {Pagination 101}[http://kurafire.net/log/archive/2007/06/22/pagination-101]
* {Pagination gallery}[http://www.smashingmagazine.com/2007/11/16/pagination-gallery-examples-and-good-practices/]
* {Pagination on Yahoo Design Pattern Library}[http://developer.yahoo.com/ypatterns/parent.php?pattern=pagination]

Want to discuss, request features, ask questions? Join the
{Google group}[http://groups.google.com/group/will_paginate].

